# Property Path

Remember, we wanna to make our API work well with whomever is using it – whether that's a third-party API client, a java script front end, or another PHP application that's communicating with our application. That's why we just made the change we did. It might be that whoever we're building this API for, it's convenient to have a simple programmer field set to the nickname and a project field set to the ID instead of imbedding the entire programmer and project objects in the response from battle. 

Similarly, you might also want to control how the input looks – what the client has to send up to your API. For example, right now, when you create a new battle you send a project field and a programmer field adjacent and that's set to the ID of each. But what if were more convenient, or for some reason you wanted to change that to Project ID and Programmer ID – after all, those are the IDs that you're sending up. If we do that, everything's going to break. You can see it when you run the test. 

You get a big error that says there was a validation error. This form should not contain extra fields. In the background, we're sending up Project ID and Programmer ID to our battle type and this has a project field and a programmer field so it looks like Project ID and Programmer ID are extra fields. So it doesn't know what the heck those are doing. It causes a problem.

The easiest way to fix this we can just change these fields to Project ID in the form and Programmer ID inside of the form as well. The problem with that is that we'd also need to change them inside of our battle model from Project ID and Programmer ID. And while that's okay; it kind of sucks because these properties are not IDs. They are objects. I really don't want to call these properties Project ID and Programmer ID. It just messes everything up.

So here is the very simple, elegant, amazing solution. In the form, you do need to update your fields to be Project ID and Programmer ID so they match what the user is sending. But then, add a property path option to Project ID and set it to project. In the Programmer ID field, do the same thing. Property path set to programmer. And that's it. 

With this in place, the form will expect the user to send a Project ID and a Programmer ID field, but when it actually sets it on our battle model object, it will set it on the project property and the programmer properties. This is a little known way where you can actually have a form field name that's different than the property inside your project. So let's bring on the test. Now it works perfectly. Make use of that to add a little bit more flexibility in how your input looks. 
